# GUIDE
## Building your PeekingDuck project with Custom Nodes (Beta)

This guide instructs new users on how to implement your own project powered by PeekingDuck, with custom nodes.

## Building Blocks
### Nodes
Nodes are the basic blocks of a PeekingDuck project. It is a wrapper for a Python function, and contains information on how PeekingDuck and other PeekingDuck nodes may interact with it.

For more finegrain control over a node's behavior, we recommend the use of [node configs](#node-configs)

### Pipeline
A pipeline governs the behavior of a chain of nodes. This may include the execution order*, parallelism*, distribution strategy* of each run.

In the most basic form of the pipeline, nodes are called in sequential order. Each node may depend on another for inputs and outputs.

Here's an example of a pipeline:
```
nodes
- random_number_generator
- multiply_by_two
- write_to_file

```
In this example,

1. `multiply_by_two` takes in a number generated by `random_number_generator` and multiplies it by two.
2. `write_to_file` then takes the output of the previous node, and write it to a file.
3. The above pipeline is repeated until a stopping condition is fulfilled, or the user manually interrupts the pipeline.


*future implementation

### Runner configs: `run_config.yml`

The runner configs, typically found in `run_config.yml` at the repository root, contains the list of nodes to be included into pipeline. PeekingDuck will refer to this list and run the nodes in sequential order.

## Starting a PeekingDuck Project

Once you have installed PeekingDuck, you can use it to start a new project:
```bash
> mkdir <new_project>
> cd <new_project>
> peekingduck init
```

Your project folder should look like this:
```
<project_name>
├── run_config.yml
└── src
    └── custom_nodes
```

- `src/custom_nodes` folder is created. This is where custom nodes created for your project should be housed.
- `run_config.yml` is the basic yml file to select your nodes in the pipeline. You will be using this to run your peekingduck pipeline.

